docs/config.md, before:

---
title: Configuring Jarl
---

## With the command line

Jarl comes with various options available directly from the command line.
These can be listed with `jarl check --help`:

```
Check a set of files or directories

Usage: jarl check [OPTIONS] <FILES>...

Arguments:
  <FILES>...
          List of files or directories to check or fix lints, for example `jarl check .`.

Options:
  -f, --fix
          Automatically fix issues detected by the linter.

  -u, --unsafe-fixes
          Include fixes that may not retain the original intent of the  code.

      --fix-only
          Apply fixes to resolve lint violations, but don't report on leftover violations. Implies `--fix`.

      --allow-dirty
          Apply fixes even if the Git branch is not clean, meaning that there are uncommitted files.

      --allow-no-vcs
          Apply fixes even if there is no version control system.

  -s, --select <SELECT>
          Names of rules to include, separated by a comma (no spaces). This also accepts names of groups of rules, such as "PERF".

          [default: ]

  -e, --extend-select <EXTEND_SELECT>
          Like `--select` but adds additional rules in addition to those already specified.

          [default: ]

  -i, --ignore <IGNORE>
          Names of rules to exclude, separated by a comma (no spaces). This also accepts names of groups of rules, such as "PERF".

          [default: ]

  -w, --with-timing
          Show the time taken by the function.

  -m, --min-r-version <MIN_R_VERSION>
          The mimimum R version to be used by the linter. Some rules only work starting from a specific version.

      --output-format <OUTPUT_FORMAT>
          Output serialization format for violations.

          Possible values:
          - full:    Print diagnostics with full context using annotated code snippets
          - concise: Print diagnostics in a concise format, one per line
          - github:  Print diagnostics as GitHub format
          - json:    Print diagnostics as JSON

          [default: full]

      --assignment <ASSIGNMENT>
          Assignment operator to use, can be either `<-` or `=`.

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')
```

You can pass multiple options at once, for instance

```sh
jarl check . --fix --select any_is_na,class_equals
```

## With a config file

To avoid typing options every time and to ensure all uses of Jarl in a project are consistent, it is possible to store options in `jarl.toml`.

This file looks like this:

```toml
[lint]
select = []
extend-select = []
ignore = []
exclude = []
default-exclude = true
assignment = "<-"
```

These arguments are described below.

::: {.callout-note}
## Using CLI arguments and `jarl.toml`

Arguments in the command line always have the priority on those specified in `jarl.toml`.
For example, if you have the following file:
```toml
[lint]
select = ["PERF", "length_test"]
ignore = []
```
then calling
```sh
jarl check . --ignore PERF
```

will only apply the rule `length_test`.
:::

### `select`

Select some rules by default.

This has the same capabilities as `--select`, so it is possible to pass rule names and names of groups of rules:

```toml
[lint]
select = ["PERF", "length_test"]
```

### `extend-select`

Select some rules in addition to `select`.

This is useful when you want to use the default set of rules *and* some additional opt-in rules.
In this scenario, you only need to add `extend-select = ["OPT_IN_RULE"]` instead of writing all default rule names.

This has the same constraints as `select`.

```toml
# Select all default rules and all `TESTTHAT` rules, which are disabled by
# default.
[lint]
extend-select = ["TESTTHAT"]
```

### `ignore`

Ignore some rules by default.

This has the same capabilities as `--ignore`, so it is possible to pass rule names and names of groups of rules:

```toml
[lint]
ignore = ["PERF", "length_test"]
```

### `exclude`

Files and/or directories that are not checked.

This takes a list relative paths to ignore:

```toml
[lint]
exclude = ["excluded.R", "tests/"]
```

It also supports glob patterns:

```toml
[lint]
exclude = ["excluded-*.R"]
```

### `default-exclude`

This takes a boolean argument indicating whether the default file exclude patterns are used.

By default, Jarl (just like the Air formatter) excludes a set of files and folders that are probably not worth checking, for instance because they are automatically generated by another program.

The complete list of default exclude patterns is:

* `.git/`
* `renv/`
* `revdep/`
* `cpp11.R`
* `RcppExports.R`
* `extendr-wrappers.R`
* `import-standalone-*.R`

```toml
[lint]
default-exclude = true
```

### `assignment`

This takes a single value (`"<-"` or `"="`) indicating the preferred assignment operator in the files to check.
While `"<-"` is recommended by several style guides, using `"="` is equivalent in most cases and several popular projects use it.

This parameter is only useful if the `assignment` rule is active.
If `assignment = "<-"` (default), then any use of the `"="` operator to assign values will be reported, and vice-versa.

```toml
[lint]
assignment = "<-"
```

### `fixable`

This determines which rule violations will be fixed if `--fix` is passed.
It takes a list of rule names or names or groups of rules, and defaults to all rules if this argument is not specified.

If a rule appears in both `fixable` and `unfixable`, `unfixable` takes precedence (i.e. violations of this rule will not be fixed).

```toml
[lint]
# Only fix violations of rules in the "PERF" group.
fixable = ["PERF"]
```

```toml
[lint]
# Do not fix any violation.
fixable = []
```

### `unfixable`

This determines which rule violations will be not fixed, even if `--fix` is passed.
It takes a list of rule names or names or groups of rules, and defaults no rules if this argument is not specified.

If a rule appears in both `fixable` and `unfixable`, `unfixable` takes precedence (i.e. violations of this rule will not be fixed).

```toml
[lint]
# Fix all violations, except those for rules in the "PERF" group.
unfixable = ["PERF"]
```

```toml
[lint]
# Fix all violations.
unfixable = []
```

Commit message:

feat: Add `--no-default-exclude` cli argument (#198)
Co-authored-by: etiennebacher <etienne.bacher@protonmail.com>

docs/config.md, after:

---
title: Configuring Jarl
---

## With the command line

Jarl comes with various options available directly from the command line.
These can be listed with `jarl check --help`:

```
Check a set of files or directories

Usage: jarl check [OPTIONS] <FILES>...

Arguments:
  <FILES>...
          List of files or directories to check or fix lints, for example `jarl check .`.

Options:
  -f, --fix
          Automatically fix issues detected by the linter.

  -u, --unsafe-fixes
          Include fixes that may not retain the original intent of the  code.

      --fix-only
          Apply fixes to resolve lint violations, but don't report on leftover violations. Implies `--fix`.

      --allow-dirty
          Apply fixes even if the Git branch is not clean, meaning that there are uncommitted files.

      --allow-no-vcs
          Apply fixes even if there is no version control system.

  -s, --select <SELECT>
          Names of rules to include, separated by a comma (no spaces). This also accepts names of groups of rules, such as "PERF".

          [default: ]

  -e, --extend-select <EXTEND_SELECT>
          Like `--select` but adds additional rules in addition to those already specified.

          [default: ]

  -i, --ignore <IGNORE>
          Names of rules to exclude, separated by a comma (no spaces). This also accepts names of groups of rules, such as "PERF".

          [default: ]

  -w, --with-timing
          Show the time taken by the function.

  -m, --min-r-version <MIN_R_VERSION>
          The mimimum R version to be used by the linter. Some rules only work starting from a specific version.

      --output-format <OUTPUT_FORMAT>
          Output serialization format for violations.

          Possible values:
          - full:    Print diagnostics with full context using annotated code snippets
          - concise: Print diagnostics in a concise format, one per line
          - github:  Print diagnostics as GitHub format
          - json:    Print diagnostics as JSON

          [default: full]

      --assignment <ASSIGNMENT>
          Assignment operator to use, can be either `<-` or `=`.
          
      --no-default-exclude
          Do not apply the default set of file patterns that should be excluded.

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')
```

You can pass multiple options at once, for instance

```sh
jarl check . --fix --select any_is_na,class_equals
```

## With a config file

To avoid typing options every time and to ensure all uses of Jarl in a project are consistent, it is possible to store options in `jarl.toml`.

This file looks like this:

```toml
[lint]
select = []
extend-select = []
ignore = []
exclude = []
default-exclude = true
assignment = "<-"
```

These arguments are described below.

::: {.callout-note}
## Using CLI arguments and `jarl.toml`

Arguments in the command line always have the priority on those specified in `jarl.toml`.
For example, if you have the following file:

```toml
[lint]
select = ["PERF", "length_test"]
ignore = []
```

then calling

```sh
jarl check . --ignore PERF
```

will only apply the rule `length_test`.
:::

### `select`

Select some rules by default.

This has the same capabilities as `--select`, so it is possible to pass rule names and names of groups of rules:

```toml
[lint]
select = ["PERF", "length_test"]
```

### `extend-select`

Select some rules in addition to `select`.

This is useful when you want to use the default set of rules *and* some additional opt-in rules.
In this scenario, you only need to add `extend-select = ["OPT_IN_RULE"]` instead of writing all default rule names.

This has the same constraints as `select`.

```toml
# Select all default rules and all `TESTTHAT` rules, which are disabled by
# default.
[lint]
extend-select = ["TESTTHAT"]
```

### `ignore`

Ignore some rules by default.

This has the same capabilities as `--ignore`, so it is possible to pass rule names and names of groups of rules:

```toml
[lint]
ignore = ["PERF", "length_test"]
```

### `exclude`

Files and/or directories that are not checked.

This takes a list relative paths to ignore:

```toml
[lint]
exclude = ["excluded.R", "tests/"]
```

It also supports glob patterns:

```toml
[lint]
exclude = ["excluded-*.R"]
```

### `default-exclude`

This takes a boolean argument indicating whether the default file exclude patterns are used.

By default, Jarl (just like the Air formatter) excludes a set of files and folders that are probably not worth checking, for instance because they are automatically generated by another program.

The complete list of default exclude patterns is:

* `.git/`
* `renv/`
* `revdep/`
* `cpp11.R`
* `RcppExports.R`
* `extendr-wrappers.R`
* `import-standalone-*.R`

```toml
[lint]
default-exclude = true
```

### `assignment`

This takes a single value (`"<-"` or `"="`) indicating the preferred assignment operator in the files to check.
While `"<-"` is recommended by several style guides, using `"="` is equivalent in most cases and several popular projects use it.

This parameter is only useful if the `assignment` rule is active.
If `assignment = "<-"` (default), then any use of the `"="` operator to assign values will be reported, and vice-versa.

```toml
[lint]
assignment = "<-"
```

### `fixable`

This determines which rule violations will be fixed if `--fix` is passed.
It takes a list of rule names or names or groups of rules, and defaults to all rules if this argument is not specified.

If a rule appears in both `fixable` and `unfixable`, `unfixable` takes precedence (i.e. violations of this rule will not be fixed).

```toml
[lint]
# Only fix violations of rules in the "PERF" group.
fixable = ["PERF"]
```

```toml
[lint]
# Do not fix any violation.
fixable = []
```

### `unfixable`

This determines which rule violations will be not fixed, even if `--fix` is passed.
It takes a list of rule names or names or groups of rules, and defaults no rules if this argument is not specified.

If a rule appears in both `fixable` and `unfixable`, `unfixable` takes precedence (i.e. violations of this rule will not be fixed).

```toml
[lint]
# Fix all violations, except those for rules in the "PERF" group.
unfixable = ["PERF"]
```

```toml
[lint]
# Fix all violations.
unfixable = []
```
